So in a previous lecture we took a look at the responsive image that WordPress generates. And we mentioned
that the "srcset" attribute we will not have to change anything in it, it's fine.
WordPress lists all the image sizes.
And that's exactly what we need.
But for the "sizes" attribute WordPress will add a condition that if the screen width is less than the image
width, the image will cover 100% of the screen,
so 100vw here.
Otherwise the image will cover 1024 pixels or actually the maximum size of the image.
But in our case here we have this content width which is 800 pixels and we already calculated
that in the last lecture.
So now our screen that is larger than 1024, this width. So the image tag will decide that 1024 is
the width that we would like to look for in the "srcset" attributes.
When in fact our content width is just 800.
So this way we can possibly load an image larger than what we actually need.
So this condition that WordPress adds could actually be useful if the image width is less than the content width,
right?
So we have the content width which is 800.
And if we edit the post and make this picture maybe the medium size. And the medium size's width is 300.
And 300 is less than 800.
So as you can see now the condition will be, if the screen with less than 300 pixels then the image
will cover 100% of the screen otherwise the image will be 300 pixels which is the maximum width
of the screen, right?
And here that's kind of what we need.
So if the screen width is less than 300 our image will cover most of the screen maybe not 100%. It
will be 100% - these paddings and margins and also the border on both sides.
But it's kind of close to what we need.
And if the screen size is larger than 300 we would like to load the maximum width of the image which in
our case is 300 pixels, a medium size. So that's only when the image width is less than the content width. But let's
get this image back to maybe the "large" or "full". Let's keep it "large".
So now this condition won't work with us.
Now what we need to do is the image will take a width of 800 as long as the screen size is larger
than a certain number of pixels.
All right.
And this certain number of pixels is 800 + these paddings and margins.
So we have the content width which is 800
and we have these paddings and margins. And these are 20 pixels on both sides, so 40, and then these margins
are 10 on both sides.
So 60 and you also have the borders of " pixel on both sides, so 62.
All right?
So when the screen width is less than 800 + 62 the image will start to resize, right? Larger
than that,
it will keep at 800. Less than that,
it will resize and it will cover 100% of the screen - these borders and paddings and margins.
So I hope this is clear.
If it's not maybe try to rewatch and understand exactly what we need to do just to be able to keep
up with what we are going to code in the next step.
So now we have two conditions.
If the image is less than the content width, we'll do something. If the image is larger than the content
width, we'll do another thing. And there will be also a condition if the layout has a sidebar but
let's now focus on the first two before going to the sidebar.
So what can we do in order to change this
"sizes" attribute?
We can use filters and WordPress provides a filter called "wp_calculate_image_sizes". And let's define a
function. Let's call it "_themename_" maybe "image_sizes". And this function will also receive 5 arguments.
So this is your priority of 10 and 5 arguments. And let's define this function.
So these 5 arguments will be the $sizes and this will be an array that contains all the sizes for the
image. And also $size
and this will be an array that contains the width and the height of the image. And $image_src
and this will contain the source of the image. $image_meta, it will be an object that will contain some
information about the image.
You know, the date it was uploaded
stuff like that.
And we'll also get the $attachment ID, the image ID.
So I think we'll actually need only the $size in this filter but maybe in your case you'll need some of the
other information as well.
So let's try and return something.
So let's return some random text here. And let's save.
And now as you can see the "sizes" attribute is our random text.
So in this filter we can do whatever calculations we need to do and then return the valid "sizes" attribute.
So let's actually write logic in the next lecture but let's first get some variables that we will need.
So we have the $width of the image and this will be the first item in the $size.
The second argument here.
We also need the $content_width.
And we've already calculated that in this action. We also will need the global $post. And we will also have
to copy this if condition.
And let's just remove this line.
And let's also default the $layout variable here to "full".
And then we'll do some if conditions here that we will decide the layout depending on the current page
and the current options and custom fields and stuff like that.
So here we have this example of the single page but also we might need to add some other if conditions
as well for pages and archives and stuff like that.
So now we have all the variables we need. We have the width of the image.
We have the content width.
We have the post and we have the layout of the current post. And here we'll have to do our calculations.
Let's do that in the next lecture.